Credit Analysis Report

This purpose of this challenge is to train and evaluate a model based on loan risk with historical lending activity. The data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

The financial information were based on the features of the data: loan size, interest rate, borrower income, debt income, number of accounts, derogatory marks, total debt. The category that I needed to predict is the loan status. There were 77535 data for the loan status. I think there could have been additional features such as age e.g. older/younger people could have been evaluated more carefully re how much loan and for how long.

Step-by-step machine learning process as part of this analysis:
1. Import the modules.
2. Read the lending_data csv file and create its dataframe.
3. Create features from all columns except for loan status. Loan status was separated because it was the predicted variable.
4. Split the data into training and testing.
5. Import the LogisticRegression library.
6. Instantiate the Logistic Regression model.
7. Fit the model using the training data.
8. Make predictions using the features from the test data.
9. Generate accuracy using confusion matrix and classification report for the model.
10. Evaluate how well the logistic regression model predict the healthy loan and high-risk loan status.

Methods used:
LogisticRegression from sklearn, train_test_split from sklearn, confusion_matrix and classification_report from sklearn.

## Results
Machine Learning Model
Based on the classification report, for precision scores, the healthy loans (0) were predicted 1.00 and high-risk loans (1) were predicted 0.87. For recall scores, the healthy loans (0) were predicted 1.00 and high-risk loans (1) were predicted 0.89. For accuracy score, it predicted 0.99.

## Summary
Overall, the model performed really well especially the healthy loans because for both precision and recall scores, they both predicted 100%, whereas for high-risk loans, they predicted 0.87 and 0.89, respectively.
It is more important to predict high-risk loans because we do not want to accidentally provide someone a loan (false positive) if this someone is a high-risk.
I would still recommend this model but more features could be added to confirm if it should be put in use for predicting the health status of the loan.
